# Version 2020.2
Upstream version 2020b release 2020-10-07T01:35:04+00:00

## Briefly:

Revised predictions for Morocco's changes starting in 2023. Canada's Yukon
changes to -07 on 2020-11-01, not 2020-03-08. Macquarie Island has stayed in
sync with Tasmania since 2011. Casey, Antarctica is at +08 in winter and +11 in
summer. zic no longer supports -y, nor the TYPE field of Rules.

## Changes to future timestamps

Morocco's spring-forward after Ramadan is now predicted to occur no sooner than
two days after Ramadan, instead of one day. (Thanks to Milamber.)  The first
altered prediction is for 2023, now predicted to spring-forward on April 30
instead of April 23.

## Changes to past and future timestamps

Casey Station, Antarctica has been using +08 in winter and +11 in summer since
2018.  The most recent transition from +08 to +11 was 2020-10-04 00:01.  Also,
Macquarie Island has been staying in sync with Tasmania since 2011.  (Thanks to
Steffen Thorsen.)

## Changes to past and future time zone abbreviations and DST flags

Canada's Yukon, represented by America/Whitehorse and America/Dawson, changes
its time zone rules from -08/-07 to permanent -07 on 2020-11-01, not on
2020-03-08 as 2020a had it. This change affects only the time zone abbreviation
(MST vs PDT) and daylight saving flag for the period between the two dates.
(Thanks to Andrew G. Smith.)

## Changes to past timestamps

Correct several transitions for Hungary for 1918/1983. For example, the
1983-09-25 fall-back was at 01:00, not 03:00. (Thanks to Géza Nyáry.)  Also, the
1890 transition to standard time was on 11-01, not 10-01 (thanks to Michael
Deckers).

The 1891 French transition was on March 16, not March 15.  The 1911-03-11 French
transition was at midnight, not a minute later. Monaco's transitions were on
1892-06-01 and 1911-03-29, not 1891-03-15 and 1911-03-11.  (Thanks to Michael
Deckers.)

## Changes to documentation and commentary

The long-obsolete files pacificnew, systemv, and yearistype.sh have been removed
from the distribution.  (Thanks to Tim Parenti.)